>> Will Sentance: Unfortunately
my slides are less, man.
That thing there it says
functional programming.
That's meant to be like a grand
bold statement on a new slide but
instead it's like a little
thing on the bottom.
So let's imagine we're just looking
at this functional programming.
Here we go.
We now have core Platform of
JavaScript from which to learn from.
We have our core platform.
There it is.
Our memory, where stuff gets stored.
Our thread,
where stuff gets run line by line.
When we start running a function,
remind me again, Shelby,
how do I start running a function?
How do I start calling a function?
>> Speaker 2: With parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: Parentheses,
there it is.
What does calling a function
create everyone, together?
It creates a brand new?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: It creates a brand
new execution context.
This is, believe me, this is everything.
Is so powerful like this.
Whenever I start calling a function,
I get to create a new execution context.
So how do I call a function, Lindsay?
>> Speaker 2: Parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: Parenthesis and
when I call a function I create a new?
>> Speaker 3: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly, smart room,
a new execution context where we
just have exactly what we do when
we always run code.
We have our memory, and thread but
now we do it inside the function.
When we start doing the code number
line inside the function and
our memory inside the function.
What we're doing now, multiple execution
context, all at the same time, but
they're all around.
So how do we keep track of them,
cuz we're only ever in one at a time, so
we gotta know which one of you're back to,
etc.
How do we keep track of them?
Don't panic, java script has the cool
stack to track which function core
we're in,
which execution context we're in, okay.
Those are our three
fundamental principles.
All of JavaScript, there's no bonus
features like the prototype of nature,
we'll cover that tomorrow.
They're no bonus features of JavaScript,
but otherwise all of JavaScript can be
captured by these three
underlying principles.
Now, we're gonna come tomorrow
also to asychronus JavaScript.
That introduces a couple of bonus,
very significant pieces that cannot
be explained by this world view.
Tomorrow we're gonna see some code and
try and evaluate it from this world view,
this paradigm, and we're gonna go no,
no, no, this doesn't capture,
this doesn't capture what
I'm trying to do here.
There must be something else going on.
We'll see that tomorrow morning.
But for synchronous JavaScript,
this is it.
What's that, Mark?
>> Speaker 3: I wanted to ask you about,
so you're saying JavaScript goes line
by line but they're must be some
other process to create the context and
stuff ahead of time.
So they're asking if there's
a compilation phase or
does JavaScript just go line by line?
>> Will Sentance: We maybe mentioned it
before people came on, but we talked about
there being an interpretation style.
JavaScript nowadays actually uses
what's called just-in-time compilation.
The V8 engine from Chrome uses
just-in-time compilation,
which does all sorts of very
smart optimizations around
which bit of this gets
assigned to memory first.
But for our purposes, again that comes
back to that question, going deep,
going under the hood of the language,
is not for theoretical purposes.
It's not for our intellectual curiosity,
we do it because it makes debugging,
writing clean code, and
communicating what we're really
doing much, much more possible.
But that also means we have to
hit a level we go, hold on,
do I need to understand how
this is turned into bi-code.
Well, no I don't because it doesn't have
any implications for how I write my code,
it doesn't help me write cleaner or
more efficient code.
So the question from the online audience
about, how does the compilation step work
here, how does the just-in-time
compilation actually work?
We don't need to worry about here.
These are our three already
quite under the hood
aspects of the JavaScript run time.
These are the three we need
to know to effectively write,
debug and communicate our code.